The 2006 General Social Survey asks questions about the number of people a respondent knows in one several race categories.  A researcher would like to examine heterogeneity in connections with people of different races by a series of economic variables. 


The number of awards earned by students at one high school. Predictors of the number of awards earned include the type of program in which the student was enrolled (e.g., vocational, general or academic) and the score on their final exam in math.


A researcher is interested in food choices that people make. Adults might have different preferences from adolescents. They collect data on the types of food, and the age of the person, their household income, and other environmental variables.


A researcher wants to investigate the time spent waiting by people at various income levels.  She recruits a series of volunteers to report via sms text the number of people in line in front of them at the grocery store. Predictors may include the number of items currently offered at a special discounted price and whether a special event (e.g., a holiday, a big sporting event) is three or fewer days away.


Based on weight-for-age anthropometric index (Z-score) child nutrition status is categorized into three groups-severely undernourished (< -3.0), moderately undernourished (-3.0 to -2.01) and nourished (≥-2.0).  A researcher collects a survey of nutrition status, along with covariates about income and demographics. 


A reseracher collects data on the number of natural disasters (wildfires, substantial rain events, earthquakes, etc) experienced by counties in Washington State over a 50 year period. He would like to estimate the economic impact of disasters of each type, so he also collect revenue from a survey of local businessses through the WA state department of revenue.  In the end, the researcher has data on the number of events of each type, along with revenue before and after, along with business characteristics.  



People’s occupational choices might be influenced by their parents’ occupations and their own education level. We can study the relationship of one’s occupation choice with education level and father’s occupation.  The occupational choices will be the outcome variable which consists of categories of occupations.



A study aims to examine the relationship between children’s work status and their demographic characteristics. To this end, data collected by TUIK’s (Turkish Statistical Institute) “Child Labor Force Survey, 2012,” conducted with the participation of 27,118 children, were used. At the first stage of the analysis, eight independent variables on the demographic characteristics of the participants were included as predictors.






